---
layout: post
title: "Book Pool"
date: 2025-01-19
author: Seamus Hughes
tags:
- Books
- recommendations
- 4,000 Weeks
---

Having established a daily-ish habit of reading, I'm going to establish a more intentional approach to my reading. Why? Well, I've only got 1,600 weeks of my [4,000-week](https://www.oliverburkeman.com/fourthousandweeks) life span left (if I'm lucky). Which equates to only 400 books left to read!

If this sort of thought experiment doesn't blow your mind, try working out how many summers you have left to live through until you're 80.

Now we're on the same page. 

Gone are the days when I walk into a library or a second-hand bookshop and casually think, "It's okay, I'll get a chance to read it eventually."

It's time to be more intentional in my book choices. 

Who better to help me out than the avid readers in my life? I'll collate their recommendations, and from this pool of books, I'll choose the books that I read this year. 

My wife, who got through 52 books last year, is my [first port of call]({% post_url 2025-01-20-wifes-reading-recommendations-2025 %}).

One of us still reads to the kids every night. Then they read themselves to sleep. So when I asked them for 12 books to read, they didn't struggle to fill the list. 

When I asked the people I work with, I was inundated with recommendations. 

Then I'll look a little further afield. There are a number of people online whose blogs and podcasts I follow religiously. I'll delve into what their book recommendations for me would be. 

To round it off, [Five Books](https://fivebooks.com) has just done a few end-of-year recommendation lists for lots of different genres and subjects, many of which I've bookmarked. I'll sift through those lists and pick a final 12 recommendations. 

That gives me a list of 60 books that other people have read and actually enjoyed or got something out of. I'm never going to get through them all, but I'll definitely get some joy out of the ones that I read.